Now let's look at architectures.
A software architecture is the fundamental organization of all of its parts.
We'll see that architectures are built on top of design principles and patterns.
Benefits include that these are proven solutions to repeatable problems.
By organizing our project in a bespoke way, we can bring confidence, scalability, performance and
more to our projects.
Software architectures are typically high level and could be applied to various languages or platforms,
and also by using them, we can have faster development as well as easier time in the maintenance phases
of our projects.
Now, while we often think as developers that our job is adding new features and that that's the majority
of our experience, research shows that 80% of the time on a software project is maintaining the code.
So by making choices for architectures, design principles and patterns up front and applying them throughout
our project, when we are adding features, that large maintenance phase can be easier and raise our
quality of life from a high level.
Some types of architectures are the no architecture approach, typically young teams or individuals
who are getting into software.
We'll do what feels right in the moment without some larger perspective or vision for the project.
But ultimately we'll see.
We need something else.
Veteran teams can use custom architectural solutions where they look at the unique needs of a team and
the product that they're creating, employing a library of those principles and patterns and create
their own solution.
There are pros and cons to this approach, and another key type is using an established architecture,
something we can pull off the shelf and apply in a prescriptive manner to our projects.
These include MVP and VC and VM, and there's many, many more we'll look at the details of these.
So while it feels quite natural to just develop as we go and do what feels right in the moment, this
no architecture approach has drawbacks.
Whether you're an individual or on a small team, there will be more debate on how to add each feature
since you don't have a recipe that leads to inconsistencies over the life of one developer and across
each other developer on the team, that means applying re factors becomes more challenging because there's
all subtle variations in the code base.
It becomes much more difficult to read the code one day later, one week later or one year later.
Also, when you're bringing new team members on or taking team members off of the project, it's more
labor intensive.
You have to do more custom explanations.
The new dev needs to spend more time to understand what's there and the code base.
And each time a developer departs, they have to explain and document more of their custom personal
flavor on how they applied that to the project.
Now, to many devs, particularly beginners, this approach still might feel like the fastest way to
get your features across.
And often we see developers in prototype phases throw these rules out the window and do the no architecture
approach.
However, such fast code does indeed bring more bugs and complexity to the project, and the cost of
software bugs grows exponentially over time.
If you can catch bugs earlier, it's quicker to fix and has less of an impact on your overall project.
Research shows that if you catch that same bug after you've shipped the product, it can be 30 times
or more difficult to fix that bug and get that new version out.
So best practices are to create maintainable code from the beginning to increase automation and any
testing around it, which we'll talk about later to catch those bugs early and often and to fix all
of your bugs before you move on to making new features.
Software research shows that more than 80% of bugs happens with around 20% of the functionality.
These can be the core pieces of glue or the architecture that holds everything together, working quickly
to add new features for the architecture or the no architecture approach will cause more and more problems
over time.
Also, quite surprising to many, over 80% of the life of developers on a software project, that 80%
is maintaining the code base, not necessarily adding new features.
So while we might think that all day is adding features, it's quite a small part of the overall workload.
So a key takeaway here is to do that 20% of new functionality and features in an efficient long term
methodology so that when we're spending the time maintaining the code base, we reap those benefits
together.
We'll see that using an established architecture like MVC will bring us many benefits in our unity development.
One of the themes we see in this section is that often the.
Idea we have about how software development goes doesn't match the reality.
We feel like all day is about adding new features, but actually that's a small part of the lifespan
of a project.
When we begin to think about long term solutions that make that maintenance easier, we place a higher
value on learning good design principles, design patterns, and ultimately architectures.
That's it for this section.
Thank you.